#📝Essay

The opportunity to make use of such readily available software woudl certainly be tempting. Open-source code holds an immense number of benefits including the contribution of many, high reliability from a multitude of code-reviewers, and just free code in general. For my task of creating a very complex and crucial piece of software for my company as soon as possible, it would be in my best interest to rely on open-source work. That said, it would be a mistake for me to implement this software for a number of reasons.
For one, it would simply be illegal. The open-source project in question has a GPL license attached. This license requires any software implementing that code to also possess a GPL license, ensuring that the resulting software is open-source (insert GPL refrence here). This would obviously be a major problem for the business model of my company which works by selling software to companies. We could not maintain closed-source software with my implementation of this GPL licensed code, which would significantly impact how the company functions. Outside of facing legal reprecussions, the company has no way of using the software in a closed-source system. That course of action would not only be illegal but also unethical, as described in the ACM Code of Ethics (insert Code of Ethics citation here).
Given this situation, I really only have two possible options to proceed with: either create the complex software myself or try to find another open-source project. A project with a permissive license would allow my company to change the copyright of our adapted code, meaning we can make our code closed-source. With the price of giving credit to the original creators, I could deliver this crucial software very quickly. However, my company may not even be willing to concede credit-rights for this project. They did ask me to program a piece of software, so it would be reasonable to expect me to deliver on those wishes without any legal issues. That being the case, the only type of open-source project I could replicate would be one without a licence of any kind. I would technically be able to replicate and make use of this code without anyy copyright or patent issues. Yet assuming I could even locate such a project that works for my specific use case, simply delivering this code to my company, without including any credit to the creators, would still be unethical. As the ACM Code of Ethics describes (insert Code of Ethics citation here), even without an explicit legal prohibition, I should never take credit for another's work.
With all of these alternatives in mind, I would first communicate these issues with an available manager. If I find that the company is fine with including credit for my borrowed piece of software, then I would proceed with permissively licenced code (like an Apache or MIT license) or include credit for code without a license. However, in the case where this is not possible, regardless of the company's need for delivering the project quickly, I would need to create the software on my own. This would not only be the most legally-responsible course of action, but also the most morally acceptable.

Association for Computing Machinery, *ACM Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct*; ACM Committee Task Force, 2018.