🧪Academic/Processed/Conditional Out of Distribution Generation.md, before:

---
alias: [Transfer VAE]
tags: academic
type: note
---
# Conditional Out of Distribution Generation

> [!summary] 
> One effective method of modifying data to resemble a completely different domain is to assign classes to inputs and train a model to reproduce an those same inputs given their classes. This transfer learning method makes use of a Variational Autoencoder that takes an input + the class of the input, and tries to reproduce the original input.
> A previous model, the Conditional Variational Autoencoder (CVAE), utilized this method by taking an input + class, encoding both, and then taking the encoding + class to try and decode into the original input. While this method is effective in transfering attributes from one [[Dataset|dataset]] to another, it doesn't internally relate conditions to inputs. Since a class is always provided seperately from the encoded input at the decode stage, the model struggles with learning how the input relates to the class.
> Enter the Transfer Variational Autoencoder (trVAE). This model is mostly identical to the CVAE, except for a major addition: regularization of the encoded input + class. By conceptually "mixing" these together right before decoding, to the point where the model has difficulty differentiating the two, the model is incentivised to encode the input in  such a way that only fundamental *non-class* related information is retained. For example, when encoding the image of a man smiling, paired with the class "smiling", encoding learns to essentially strip the man of his smile in preparation of mixing with the later supplied class. This differs from the original CVAE method, where the man could be encoded with *all* information, even smiling.
> By stripping an input of it's class-related information, encoded inputs are primed and ready to be supplied with a class and transformed.

## Out of Distribution Generation

Out of [[Distribution|distribution]] generation (OOD) is the generation of data with specific attributes without ever explicitly training on that kind of data.
For example, using a model to predict how a brown dog would look like with black fur becomes an OOD problem if the model is never trained on images of black dogs.

Initially, this may seem like an impossible task. However, by learning about this class of data (dogs with black fur) by training on one part at a time, it can be achieved.
The model could be trained on dogs with brown fur. Then, it is trained on cats with black fur. Finally, it is trained on cats with brown fur (to connect cat-related learning to dogs). With this information all stored in a model, it is reasonable to assume that the model is capable of generating an image of a dog with black fur.

While this makes sense conceptually, creating a model that can perform this OOD in practise can be difficult. Thankfully, the Transfer Variational Autoencoder (trVAE) was created to do just this.

## Variational Autoencoder

Variational Autoencoders are models that take inputs and try to reproduce them with variations. In the field of transfer learning, this usually means representating input data as data from a different [[Distribution|distribution]]. In other words, making data seem as if it comes from another domain.

For example, one could take an input image of a woman not smiling and place it in a Variational Autoencoder. This model may then produce an altered image of that same woman smiling.

Variational Autoencoders are also used to make minor modifications to data simply to anonymize data contributers. A dataset of the financial history of users, for example, could be changed in such a way that the identity of users remains undisclosed, yet general statistics about the data stay the same.

In the context of this paper, Variational Autoencoders are used for that first purpose: to transfer the domain of data.

## References
1. [[@lotfollahi.etal_2020]]

Commit message:

vault backup: 2022-10-15 22:51:10
Affected files:
.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-admonition/data.json
.obsidian/plugins/various-complements/data.json
.obsidian/workspace.json
Library.md
📖Bookshelf/A World Without Heroes.md
📖Bookshelf/Adventurers Wanted.md
📖Bookshelf/Graceling.md
📖Bookshelf/I am Number 4.md
📖Bookshelf/Magnus Chase.md
📖Bookshelf/Nicholas Flamel Series.md
📖Bookshelf/Restart.md
📖Bookshelf/Scythe.md
📖Bookshelf/The Inheritance Cycle.md
📖Bookshelf/The Night Angel Trilogy.md
📖Bookshelf/The Rithmatist.md
🧪Academic/Processed/Conditional Out of Distribution Generation.md

🧪Academic/Processed/Conditional Out of Distribution Generation.md, after:

---
alias: [Transfer VAE]
tags: academic
type: note
---
# Conditional Out of Distribution Generation

> [!summary] 
> One effective method of modifying data to resemble a completely different domain is to assign classes to inputs and train a model to reproduce an those same inputs given their classes. This transfer learning method makes use of a Variational Autoencoder that takes an input + the class of the input, and tries to reproduce the original input.
> A previous model, the Conditional Variational Autoencoder (CVAE), utilized this method by taking an input + class, encoding both, and then taking the encoding + class to try and decode into the original input. While this method is effective in transfering attributes from one [[Dataset|dataset]] to another, it doesn't internally relate conditions to inputs. Since a class is always provided seperately from the encoded input at the decode stage, the model struggles with learning how the input relates to the class.
> Enter the Transfer Variational Autoencoder (trVAE). This model is mostly identical to the CVAE, except for a major addition: regularization of the encoded input + class. By conceptually "mixing" these together right before decoding, to the point where the model has difficulty differentiating the two, the model is incentivised to encode the input in  such a way that only fundamental *non-class* related information is retained. For example, when encoding the image of a man smiling, paired with the class "smiling", encoding learns to essentially strip the man of his smile in preparation of mixing with the later supplied class. This differs from the original CVAE method, where the man could be encoded with *all* information, even smiling.
> By stripping an input of it's class-related information, encoded inputs are primed and ready to be supplied with a class and transformed.

## Out of Distribution Generation

Out of [[Distribution|distribution]] generation (OOD) is the generation of data with specific attributes without ever explicitly training on that kind of data.
For example, using a model to predict how a brown dog would look like with black fur becomes an OOD problem if the model is never trained on images of black dogs.

Initially, this may seem like an impossible task. However, by learning about this class of data (dogs with black fur) by training on one part at a time, it can be achieved.
The model could be trained on dogs with brown fur. Then, it is trained on cats with black fur. Finally, it is trained on cats with brown fur (to connect cat-related learning to dogs). With this information all stored in a model, it is reasonable to assume that the model is capable of generating an image of a dog with black fur.

While this makes sense conceptually, creating a model that can perform this OOD in practise can be difficult. Thankfully, the Transfer Variational Autoencoder (trVAE) was created to do just this.

## Variational Autoencoder

Variational Autoencoders are models that take inputs and try to reproduce them with variations. In the field of transfer learning, this usually means representating input data as data from a different [[Distribution|distribution]]. In other words, making data seem as if it comes from another domain.

For example, one could take an input image of a woman not smiling and place it in a Variational Autoencoder. This model may then produce an altered image of that same woman smiling.

Variational Autoencoders are also used to make minor modifications to data simply to anonymize data contributers. A dataset of the financial history of users, for example, could be changed in such a way that the identity of users remains undisclosed, yet general statistics about the data stay the same.

In the context of this paper, Variational Autoencoders are used for that first purpose: to transfer the domain of data.

## Conditional Variational Autoencoder

The Conditional Variational Autoencoder is a model that can transfer data from one domain to another

## References
1. [[@lotfollahi.etal_2020]]
