# About You
#📝Essay

## [[🏫 Princeton#More About You 50 words]]
Learning to play the saxophone would be an interesting endeavor. I don't know how to play anything else but I think it would be a great first instrument. Saxophones make a nice jazzy sound, and it would be pretty funny to use my skill at family gatherings or parties.

## [[🏫 Princeton#More About You 50 words]]
I feel most elated when I tell a particularly clever joke to my siblings and receive laughs as a response. The laughter tends to snowball and, as if it is contagious, reach myself as well. We usually end up all laughing together.

## [[🏫 Princeton#More About You 50 words]]
While it may sound cliche, "Into the Unknown" from Frozen 2 sums up my anticipation for university life. While I have disected college websites, attended talks, and done everything I can to prepare myself, I will never know how the experience will go untill I see for myself.

## [[🏫 Carnegie Mellon#Short Answers]]
When I read through a particularly heroic chapter from a novel, or when the beat drops during a lively song, a strange sort of feeling runs through me. It feels as if someone just opened up my skull, poured sugar on my brain, and shook it up a little. This feeling rarely comes to me, but I have found it to be a great indicator of my interests.
This feeling is most common while I read books from the fantasy genre, especially when I happen upon the work of my favorite authors. Christopher Paolini, Brent Weeks, Brandon Mull and a few choice writers have a knack for creating exciting moments filled to the brim with heroism or dread. Brave individuals stand before insurmountable evil, standing up for others where no one else dares. A group of unlikely heroes stands moments away from certain doom, praying for help. A formidable villain meets their match and duels with their opponent in one final battle, the outcome of which decides the fate of the entire world. Each of these scenarios brings an acute sense of impossibility and awe. I am left holding on to the edge of my seat, wondering what will happen next.
Reading is as close as I get to escaping this world and experiencing somewhere new. It allows me to connect with all sorts of characters and win their victories, suffer their defeats, and learn their lessons. When I get the chance to read, I fall into a trance, seeing the events described and feeling the emotions of the protagonist. To quote George R.R. Martin, "A reader lives a thousand lives before he dies..." It is one of my passions and a hobby I will be sure to carry with me wherever my path leads.

## [[🏫 MIT#Short Responses]]
When I read through a particularly heroic chapter from a novel, or when the beat drops during a lively song, a strange sort of feeling runs through me. It feels as if someone just opened up my skull, poured sugar on my brain, and shook it up a little. This feeling rarely comes to me, but I have found it to be a great indicator of my interests.
This feeling is most common while I read books from the fantasy genre, especially when I happen upon the work of my favorite authors. Christopher Paolini, Brent Weeks, Brandon Mull and a few choice writers have a knack for creating exciting moments filled to the brim with heroism or dread. Brave individuals stand before insurmountable evil, standing up for others where no one else dares. A group of unlikely heroes stands moments away from certain doom, praying for help. A formidable villain meets their match and duels with their opponent in one final battle, the outcome of which decides the fate of the entire world. Each of these scenarios brings an acute sense of impossibility and awe. I am left holding on to the edge of my seat, wondering what will happen next. Reading is as close as I get to escaping this world and experiencing somewhere new. It allows me to connect with all sorts of characters and win their victories, suffer their defeats, and learn their lessons.

## [[💸 Bold Books]]
The premise of Brandon Mull's book, "Beyonders: A World Without Heroes," is a unique one. The main character, a boy named Jason, finds himself in a magical land separate from his world. In it, there are soldiers, wizards, giants, and all sorts of fascinating creatures.
Jason finds himself involved in a desperate effort to defeat the ruler of this new world: an evil wizard named Maldor. Maldor is an insurmountable foe, protected by a heavily armed fortress, obedient soldiers and monsters alike, and magical powers that the world had never seen before. The only hope of defeating him is a secret word of power.
This magic word can destroy Maldor utterly, and Jason goes out to find this word and put an end to Maldor's rein. However, obtaining the word is a problem in itself. It is broken up into six syllables and scattered throughout the land, each syllable guarded by deadly traps and formidable enemies. Jason's quest leads him to outrun, outfight, and outwit his opponents in a dangerous gamble to free this new world and even save his own.

This book is so inspiring to me due to Jason's character design and the situations he faces throughout its duration. Despite being a 13-year-old with no powers or special abilities, his determination and wit drive him to complete his extreme task in an attempt to save the world. There are many fantasy stories in which the main character is blessed with unique abilities that enable them to do great things, so "Beyonders: A World Without Heroes" was a refreshing tale. It has shown me that many goals can be achieved with cleverness and determination, and it has inspired me to try my best in any given endeavor.

## [[💸 Sloane Stephens Doc & Glo]]
Skepticism is a persisting aspect of my identity, much to my siblings' annoyance. Frequently, I find myself launched (almost unconsciously) into heated debates on unimportant subjects. I have debated with my sister on countless technicalities regarding emotion and how the brain works. I wind up disagreeing with my brothers on who deserved to sit on our favorite chair, bringing up details like the duration and exact timing of their sitting. I even question my parents on a few subjects, but those arguments don't get nearly as far. In most situations I find myself in, my default position is doubt, and I take time to debate whether that doubt is justified or not.

This characteristic has gotten me into a lot of trouble, but it has also helped me in many situations. It has helped me break down complex problems and understand the world around me. It has ensured that I make educated decisions and rarely act without reason. By asking "why?" in any given situation, I focus my thoughts and analyze circumstances to the best of my abilities. Before I accept any new information, I try to formulate arguments against it and disprove the information before believing it.

To make truly remarkable discoveries, and to conduct meaningful research in the future, I will need to challenge ideas that have existed in our societies for many years. I will need to question existing theorems and formulas. By viewing the world through a skeptical lens, I hope to discover things that challenge the norm. Groundbreaking discoveries are made not by people that follow every rule and principle to a fault. Inventions are not the product of accepting situations as they are. Meaningful discoveries are born of new ideas that challenge preexisting ones.

Great thinkers like Steve Jobs and Thomas Edison didn't just accept their situations as they were. They questioned ways of life, questioned technological limitations, and even questioned the great thinkers of their times. They were the very definition of unconventional, and their unprecedented methods lead to astounding results. These creators, and many others throughout history, recognized that to make significant changes in the world, they had to challenge old ways.

Skepticism is my most valued personal characteristic, and with it, I hope to challenge ideas and establish some of my own. As I continue my education, I bring this value to every situation. I may doubt preexisting notions and ideas, but I don't doubt my future for a minute.

## [[💸 Google CSSI]]
1. First, I would refresh the page and try again. Sometimes, due to network or loading errors, a website may malfunction only temporarily.
2. If that doesn't work, I would assume that there may be an error on my end. I would double-check the image format I sent, ensuring that it was a PNG, JPEG, or another standardized format. While it would be highly inconvenient for a photo-sharing app to require one specific image format, that may be the case.
3. Upon finding that the error persists, I would try seeing if I could send a link to my image instead. Using either Google Photos or Drive, I would share the link to my image with my intended recipient. However, I realize that while this method may work, it doesn't solve the problem of the app not accepting images.
4. Next, I would try restarting my device and attempt the problem again. If that doesn't work, I would see if another device had the same issue. I could boot up a Linux Virtual machine or try another Windows device.
5. If none of these previous methods work, I would be reasonably sure that the problem resides on the server-side of things. I would share the link to the image or try another app.

## [[💸 NetDocuments Work Inspired]]
On my first day of 5th grade, having moved from Washington to Texas only one year past, I was extremely apprehensive about what was to come. I struggled to make new friends at the time, and being the new kid didn't improve my prospects. I would have ended up spending the day alone, if not the entire school year, had a friendly classmate not invited me over to his table. From that day forth, my group of friends and social confidence grew and grew. My newfound friends introduced me to others, and I suddenly found myself part of an amazing team. We would play games with one another, share ideas and opinions, and challenge one another to perform their very best.
Even today, I am still friends with the boy that once invited me to his table, and I have made many friends since. We have made our academic journeys into a sort of competition, and anyone that falls behind is encouraged to persevere. My friends inspire me immensely, and I am grateful to know them.

## [[💸 Knights of Columbus Scholarship]]
I plan to attend college and further my career because of the values instilled in me by my family and culture. When my grandparents grew too old to sustain themselves with working positions, my parents took up the call. They send them money, support, and any care that is needed. Their example has inspired me to do the same. More than family obligations, however, I genuinely enjoy computer science and the process of solving problems with code. In this day and age, many companies and individuals can benefit greatly from the work of Data Scientists and Computer Scientists.
At Queen of Peace Church, I assist with the PowerPoint presentations during mass. My family has always held a strong emphasis on church and worship. There is rarely a day when my four siblings aren't assisting the mass proceedings. In the past, I was also an altar server, helping the priest whenever I could.
On my journey to gather more knowledge in Computer Science, I have always found it inspiring to encounter famous figures in history similar to myself. Seeing another figure of a similar race, culture, or religion helps me believe I can accomplish just as much, if not more. One day, I hope to be that inspiration for anyone following a similar journey. Simply finding a fellow Catholic who hopefully accomplished his dreams may encourage one to pursue their own. This scholarship alone may not ensure my success in completing this goal, but it will bring me closer to achieving it.
It is impossible to ensure that I am the most deserving of this scholarship among my many peers. However,  I can guarantee that this scholarship will enable me to further my education with peace of mind, pursue careers that inspire and interest me, and give back to my community upon achieving my goals.