# Activism
#📝Essay

## [[💸 Generation Google]]
There are really only three options when it comes to learning programming: coding bootcamps or paid tutorials, a college degree, independent learning. Two out of these three options require a substantial amount of financial resources. The third option, while free, can be extremely challenging and makes obtaining a position much more difficult. For those with a substantial amount of money and resources, college degrees or even coding bootcamps are viable options. However, those that aren’t fortunate economically are forced to follow independent learning paths or choose a different profession entirely. While there is a vast amount of educational content available online, they cannot substitute for hands-on experiences and independent learners can become confused and misguided in their endeavors.
As income demographics have shown, Black and African American individuals tend to have lower income levels compared to other racial groups. Black and African American workers also make up a low percent of information technology professionals: just 10%, which is lower than Asian, White, and Hispanic workers.
The explanation for this correlation between low income and technology positions lies within the learning methods that I discussed. African Americans generally have less money for education, and therefore are not as committed to obtaining tech-related jobs.
To combat these circumstances, that third option for learning to code needs to be made as effective as possible. That is why I wish to create my own tutorials and guides for African Americans or anyone that cannot afford traditional education. With structured, convenient tutorials similar to those on paid websites. I will cover a wide range of topics in the hopes of inspiring learners from practically any IT field. Regardless of the specific topics I cover, I will always follow these three guidelines to keep opportunities open for those who need it: 1. Free content, 2. Open-Source Practice Files, and 3. Useful Information.
By creating easy to follow, rich in information, and most importantly free tutorials, I can provide others with a good third option. In the future, I hope to also grant certification for mastered subjects, further providing leverage for gaining positions in technology fields.
With my endeavors, I can help combat the lack of Black and African American representation in the field of technology, and hopefully even decrease the income gap with other ethnic groups. In the future, I can even bring others to my cause and build a strong team for combatting this issue. We can make that third learning option an actually viable one and promote programming for all kinds of people. My vision for the future is one in which students and professionals aren’t constricted to poor options for learning what they love. This future can certainly be made into reality with just a little bit of ingenuity, effort, and a desire to help kids that have the same passion for gaining knowledge.

## [[🏫 Princeton#Your Voice]]
My family has a strong connection with the Church and the Catholic community. We try our best to help support them in any way we can with our time, talent, and treasure. Personally, I volunteer to operate the PowerPoint presentations during Mass processions and help guide anybody who participates. Occassionally, I also help perform plays at the Church portraying the lives of biblical figures. It is a challenging but rewarding experience, and it's fun to participate with family members and friends. Apart from Church-specific activities, each summer my family helps out at a local food-bank to distribute food for those in need.
In the past, it has been mostly my parents initiating these services and encouraging me to participate. However, due to their encouragement, I have become more acustomed to helping others, and it brings me pleasure as well.
Sometimes it is hard to aknowledge that many others around the world don't have half the opportunities that I do. I was given a loving family, sufficient resources, and time to explore my interests. Using some of that time to improve others' situations and lives is only right, and while it can be difficult at times, I am glad that my parents have taught me to do so.
I was raised to appreciate my own life and to help others. In the future, I plan to continue using these lessons to guide my life and my contributions to society.

## [[🏫 MIT#Short Responses]]
I live at the very bottom of Texas, specifically in the Rio Grande Valley. The namesake of our area, the Rio Grande, makes farming, feeding livestock, and drinking possible. It is home to many varieties of plants and animals that contribute to Texas's diversity.
Excess estrogen in the Rio Grande is causing fish and other assorted organisms to alter their reproductive systems and thereby offset their populations and ecosystems. The primary problem water managers have with combating this issue is detecting estrogen in the first place. Existing methods are costly, time-consuming, and can even be inaccurate. 
With this issue in mind, I joined a research competition hosted by UTRGV. I was mentored by a professor that has researched a similar topic. With the assistance of one of my peers, I devised ways to detect estrogen in water easily and efficiently. Among these methods, Piezoelectric Microcantilever detection methods seemed to be the most logical. I constructed a research paper, assisted with model testing through various software, and delivered a presentation to fellow researchers on my project. By the end of the program, my partner and I had devised a potentially more accurate method for biomolecule detection in water. In doing so, we created solutions for the problem wildlife face in the Rio Grande, as well as other bodies of water.
In addition to the external effects of our research, I gained confidence in collaborating with others in academic settings and time management skills.

## [[💸 Amazon Future Engineer#Short Answer]]
Diabetes is a serious problem in the Rio Grande Valley, the region I am from. One out of every four residents in the area has the disease, and the situation has not improved much in recent years. Many resources go towards treating existing diabetes patients. Diabetes prevention, on the other hand, is seriously lacking attention.
Type 2 diabetes can be avoided or delayed with lifestyle changes and a healthy diet, a solution that can be simple yet challenging to keep track of.
By creating an application that combines diet plans, weight-loss programs, and doctor advice, all with a personalized touch for diabetes prevention, I can help others prevent their diabetes and keep their health in check. I would add a scheduling option for planning exercises and meals. I may also add links to online training programs to make them easily accessible. By adding machine learning to my application, I can also personalize the application further, giving recommendations that users appreciate.

## [[💸 Google CSSI]]
I propose an application tracker called _App Quest_. The goal of this app is to keep track of every scholarship, university, or job to which a user applies. In searching for a professional position or obtaining a much-needed scholarship, it's easy for applicants to get lost in the mess of half-finished applications.
To combat this situation, _App Quest_ will provide a simple and efficient method of tracking each application a user attempts and finding the features that make a given application successful. It scans essays and resumes for keywords that can increase a user's chance of success, which is made possible with three steps:
1. Analyzing a plethora of application essays from similar subject areas (gathered from surveying in the initial stages of app development),
2. Grouping "successful" essays (denoted as such due to the acceptance of applications) and finding the most common keywords between them,
3. And identifying those words in the user's applications.
_App Quest_ will also have the ability to create a time series of how the number of applications affects the number of acceptances, helping the students and professionals alike find a balance between quantity and quality.

## Exploring Community at Penn

While researching potential programs and Universities for my further education, one thing that struck me about Penn was the sheer number of student organizations available. After scrolling through the directory of pennclubs.com for quite a while, I was further shocked to find that the site was created by one of Penn’s very own clubs, Penn Labs. I’ve found that the lifeblood of a University community is its students and the groups they form, and I was pleased to see that Penn shares similar values. I believe that the best way to make a positive impact on Penn would be through its student organizations. By taking part in clubs that do so much for the students like Penn Labs and the many websites it has produced, or even simply connecting with a fellow student over a match in the Penn Smash Bros. club, I would have the opportunity to directly impact my peers and Penn as a whole. Therefore, one of my primary goals upon pursuing a Master’s degree here will be to join some of the many remarkable clubs Penn has to offer, giving me the chance to share my journey and perspectives with others.
