# Personal Statement UPenn
#📝Essay

## Abrasive Drafts
### Abrasive Draft #1

In the Yoruba culture, "Kolade" roughly translates to "one who brings wealth to the family." I've often wondered why I was given a name so different from those of my siblings. My brothers Korede and Kayode have often brought us joy with their successes and personalities. My sisters Kemi and Kike have had more than their fair share of pampering (to the expense of us brothers). But unlike the others, my own name's meaning has always been more of a set expectation than a blessing.

Throuhout my life I have conciously, and unconciously, b4een working towards fulfilling this expection. I joined an early college program to get in and out of school as fast as possible, graduating 3 years earlier than my peers. I applied to scholarships and worked part time while finishing up my degree so as to not burden my family with school expenses. Rather than preparing graduate applications my first and final year at University, I instead applied for software engineering positions and began working full time at the age of 18, putting myself in a position to support myself fully.

I had finally achieved the means to fulfill my obligations to my family, and what I believed to be my purpose as a whole. Yet achieving this didn't bring me the satisfaction I had hoped for.

"Bringing wealth" didn't just mean earning a steady salary, and "the family" didn't have to be so literal. I set my sights on a new purpose of [creating solutions for anyone I could help], specifically with automation by way of Machine Learning. My name stayed the same, yet it's meaning was completely new.

### Abrasive Draft #2

In my experience, Computer Science has always been about creating systems to solve human problems without constant human presence. In a way, we programmers transform our intelligence into the form of code to later be reverted back to usable intelligence. It is this aspect of Computer Science that has captivated my interest in the field and has driven me to pursue higher education here at UPenn to further study the subject, specifically with a focus on Machine Learning.

My first encounter with Machine Learning arose from an Intro to Data Science course at the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley. Each week, we were introduced to a new statistical model, and after each introduction, we were tasked with building these models in Python and training/evaluating them with our own datasets. Suddenly, I was able to build systems that were the foundations of a surprising number of products I make constant use of, like search engines and spam-email flagging. I thoroughly enjoyed the course and went on to conduct research with the professor, Dr. Marzieh Ayati, the following semester. It was there that I gained my first hands-on experience with Deep Learning models and Biotechnology by researching, developing, and training models for Alzheimer's detection in patients with limited protein expression data from the blood. Our primary approach made use of variational Autoencoders to transfer the expression to identify anomalies. Furthermore, I found that I loved the process of pitching research ideas to my advisor and debating with her on their validity. It was invigorating to be able to work on problems I had researched, suggested, and even argued for as opposed to simply being assigned a list of tasks to complete. Having taken part in the Mathematics and Science Academy early college program for my last 2 years of high school, I ultimately graduated from UTRGV at the age of 18 after only one more year of study. If it were not for my early graduation, I would have truly appreciated continuing my research there.

Rather than immediately applying for Graduate school, I instead opted to pursue software development to confirm my career interests in Computer Science for myself. Much like the ML models I built at UTRGV, I transferred over much of the knowledge I gained from my time at University to my position as a software engineer at JPMorgan Chase. One of my major tasks was to deploy a search engine for the content library of one of our addins. I had to find the most reasonable balance of preprocessing time, search time, and search flexibility to ensure that users would receive the most relevant results for nearly any query. Prior courses and experimentation with various NLP concepts gave me an understanding of how certain parameters like tokenizer type affected searching capabilities. In a setting where my design decisions directly impacted thousands of users, I also had the opportunity to research and present my findings for the configurations selected. While I did not have the total freedom of my days conducting research in Dr. Ayati's lab, the findings and decisions I did have control over were being used by a large corporation and benefiting many users in no time at all.

I would be lying if I claimed that I had always planned to pursue a Master's degree here at the University of Pennsylvania. If I were asked even one year ago, I would have been unsure if I wanted to pursue Graduate education at all. However, I can now see that both my experiences as an Undergraduate researcher and as a Software Engineer have led me to this very application. In terms of research interests, I believe my experience and focus on developing ML models to handle the widest possible range of human inputs align closely with Dr. Hamed Hassani and his own research on Robustenss and adversarial training, so I can see myself working with him to develop such frameworks and models. UPenn itself also aligns very closely with my career and extracurricular interests. I have found it to be the perfect blend of business and innovation, the best of both my key experiences in Computer Science. Furthermore, I would love for the chance to join a couple of the amazingly well-organized and myriad clubs UPenn has to offer, namely Penn Catholic Newman Center and the Penn Data Science Group. Attending the University of Pennsylvania and pursuing its MSE in CIS program specifically will provide me the opportunity to explore my interests in Computer Science and Machine Learning fully while being a part of a whole community of driven and unique students.

With a Master’s of Science in Engineering in Computer and Information Science from UPenn, I plan to pursue a position as an ML Research Scientist at an industrial company. If there’s anything that I’ve learned from my time conducting research, it’s that I love creating systems that can handle human-level tasks robustly and efficiently. However, my experiences as a Software Engineer have made me appreciate the ability to help users in a meaningful and immediate way with my work. As I have come to appreciate, the primary purpose of Computer Science is to create systems for people first. I hope to unify both of these lessons in my career, conducting innovative research at a corporation that can use my work to improve the lives of many.

In many ways, people are a reflection of the field of Computer Science. We are extremely nuanced and complex systems that absorb the information around us. However, unlike traditional programs, we have the choice of where and how we apply our training. My own decision is to use the experiences and knowledge I’ve gained to assist as many people I can as much as possible, and I hope that the MSE in CIS program here at UPenn will be the next stepping stone on that path to that goal.
## Cleaned Up

In my experience, Computer Science has always been about creating systems to solve problems for the sole purpose of helping humans. In a way, we programmers create delayed assistance in the form of code to later be applied in someone’s life. It is this aspect of Computer Science that has captivated my interest in the field and has driven me to pursue higher education here at Penn to further study the subject, specifically with a focus on applied Machine Learning.

My first encounter with Machine Learning arose from an Intro to Data Science course at the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV). Each week, we were introduced to a new statistical model, and after each introduction, we were tasked with building these models in Python and training/evaluating them with our own datasets. Suddenly, I was able to build systems that were the foundations of a surprising number of products I make constant use of, like search engines and spam-email flagging. Driven by a desire to apply the knowledge I gained in a practical setting, I went on to conduct research with the professor, Dr. Marzieh Ayati, the following semester. It was there that I gained my first hands-on experience with Deep Learning models and Biotechnology by researching, developing, and training models for Alzheimer's detection in patients with limited protein expression data from the blood. Our primary approach made use of variational Autoencoders to transfer the expression to identify anomalies. Furthermore, I found that I loved the process of pitching research ideas to my advisor and debating with her on their validity. The method I pushed for focused on using Transfer Variational Autoencoders for two different purposes: one for generating predictive transfers of healthy to sick patients and then analyzing the proteins for which the model made inaccurate transfers, and second for transferring proteomics data in patients to represent the distribution of patients 9 months after their condition was diagnosed to predict the development of the disease. It was this two-pronged method that we ultimately opted to pursue and develop, and the process gave me insight into the inner workings of complex ML systems. Having taken part in the Mathematics and Science Academy early college program for my last 2 years of high school, I ultimately graduated from UTRGV at 18 after another year of study. If it were not for my early graduation, I would have truly appreciated the chance to continue my research with Dr. Ayati to see our research through to help real people dealing with Alzheimer’s.

Rather than immediately applying for Graduate school, I instead opted to pursue software development to explore Computer Science from an entirely different area and to make more of an impact on users. Much like the ML models I built at UTRGV, I transferred over much of the knowledge I gained from my time at University to my position as a software engineer at JPMorgan Chase. One of my major tasks was to deploy a search engine for the content library of one of our add-ins, a key feature for users to interact with our application. I had to make and recommend decisions that would completely change the functionality search engine, potentially missing relevant results or burying them with irrelevant ones. I then weighed the robustness and relevance of queries with their run-time performance and response time. I found that the difficulty did not lie in configuring the search engine or creating intelligent queries. Rather, it was the first time I was so directly responsible for choices that would help or hurt users, and making such impactful decisions took some getting used to. However, this assignment also made me appreciate being in a position to help develop a useful tool for thousands of users. While my technical interests were still in applied Machine Learning, I found the opportunity to apply my work in a real-world application rewarding.

If I were asked even one year ago, I would have been unsure if I wanted to pursue Graduate education at all. I can now see that both my experiences as an Undergraduate researcher and as a Software Engineer have led me to this very application. In terms of research interests, I believe my experience and focus on utilizing novel methods for creating consistently accurate predictions align closely with Dr. Hamed Hassani and his own research on robustness and adversarial training. His research on Out-of-Distribution robustness enforcement especially highlights his dedication to ensuring users consistently receive expected predictions, and I can see myself contributing to similar endeavors. Penn itself also aligns very closely with my career and extracurricular interests. I have found it to be the perfect blend of business and innovation, the best of both my key experiences in Computer Science. I also hope for the chance to join the Penn Data Science Group to further explore the interests that first ignited my passion for research, as well as the Penn Catholic Newman Center to help contribute and participate in the Catholic community while at Penn.

With a Master of Science in Engineering in Computer and Information Science from Penn, I plan to pursue a position as an ML Research Scientist at an industrial company. If there’s anything that I’ve learned from my time conducting research, it’s that I love the challenge of creating intelligent systems to solve problems in unique ways. However, my experiences as a Software Engineer have made me appreciate the wider applicability of Computer Science to the everyday needs of people. As I have come to understand and admire, the primary purpose of Computer Science is to create systems for people first. I hope to unify both of these lessons in my career, conducting innovative research at institutions that can use my work to improve the lives of many.

In many ways, people are a reflection of the field of Computer Science. We are extremely nuanced and complex systems that absorb the information around us. However, unlike traditional programs, we have the choice of where and how we apply our training. My own decision is to use the experiences and knowledge I’ve gained to assist as many people I can as much as possible, and I hope that the MSE in CIS program here at Penn will be the next stepping stone on that path to that goal.