# Scholarship
#📝Essay

## [[💸 Generation Google]]
Having both graduated from university themselves, my parents understand the importance of having a formal education for expanding opportunities. however, they have limited financial resources and enormous responsibilities. In addition to providing for me and my 4 siblings, my parents also shoulder the responsibility of financially supporting their aged parents and extended families in Nigeria.
This past August, my older brother began his college education. He works on campus to partially pay his expenses and minimize his student debt. I currently work each Saturday as a janitor to generate some money for my own college expenses, and I plan on working on-campus as well. Having 3 other younger siblings waiting for their own turns to attend college, my parents have been extra careful in managing their expenses and minimizing costs. By working on campus, I can contribute to their efforts and reduce their worry of paying my expenses.
The Generation Google Scholarship would grant my family peace of mind for the 2022-2023 school year, and enable them to place more resources into saving for the education of my siblings. It can also grant me the bearing I need to explore my options for a more permanent professional position, allowing me to support myself in the future without worry from my parents.

## [[💸 Loan Lawyers]]
Financial freedom is becoming a sort of fantasy in today's world. Students go to college, gain student debt, struggle with car and house loans, and work the rest of their lives in an attempt to relieve that debt. This reality leaves little time for enjoyment and the pursuit of dreams and desires. It limits potential over-achievers in a way that their talents are never brought to the spotlight. More than anything, debt is a shackle that can make life miserable, and those shackles are not easy to break.
True financial freedom would mean freedom from debt and the ability to support the burdens of myself and others. It would mean avoiding the oppressive shackles that can limit my future. I wish to have the ability to support not only myself but my family and anyone in need.
There are multiple ways to accomplish this goal, and I intend to pursue every one of them. The first and foremost method of achieving financial freedom is investing in my education and skills. Student debt is a serious problem in our society, and it can even discourage pursuing an education in the first place. While this problem is a reality, the decision to not pursue a college degree could be even more devastating in the grand scheme of things. Many careers and opportunities are made available with college degrees, and it would be a mistake to ignore these benefits. In addition, pursuing formal education can allow me to solidify my skills in the field of Computer Science and give me the confidence I will need in future positions.
While creating an avenue for solid income is one of the most important goals I can pursue, managing that money is an equally necessary task. By creating a stable and logical budget for myself, I hope to utilize my finances in the best way possible. By making smart decisions with my money and saving when appropriate, I can prepare for emergencies and retirement. It is alarmingly easy to only consider momentary desires and expenses, especially in an age of instant shopping and delivery. By committing to a strict plan of when and how to spend my money, I can equip myself for life's greatest challenges.
We live in a world in which merit is not the only factor in achieving great things. When my mom sat me down and asked me where I wanted to pursue higher education, I enthusiastically listed off multiple ivy league and world-renowned institutions. Warily, my mom noted that those universities were mostly far-away and extremely expensive. She asked me to consider universities closer to home and encouraged me to apply to as many scholarships as possible.
Before this conversation, I had never seriously considered the monetary costs of attending such colleges and universities. I was unsure that these universities would even accept me, and the fact that I might not have the ability to sustain attending them was devastating. My only hope in achieving all that I wished for was to take my mother's advice.
Scholarships can kick-start my path to financial freedom by minimizing the cost of formal education, which can lead to a stable income. With your support today, I can initiate my journey to a fulfilling life and a rewarding career.

## [[💸 Millman Opportunity]]
My parents have the daunting task of saving money for five different college funds, and as I have learned more recently, money doesn't just grow on trees. Everyone in the family does their part to contribute to these funds, with my brother working for a marketing company while in college, myself doing janitorial work on the weekends, and each of my siblings maintaining and cleaning our home. Even with all of this effort to pay for our education, covering all our expenses is a lofty task.
My parents already have enough to worry about without my needs included. If I can, I wish to satisfy my own needs without burdening my family further. This scholarship would bring me one step closer to accomplishing that goal. Paying for my Bachelor's degree would be considerably more realistic, and it would place me in a better position to get hired and establish a steady means of income. I could then use these funds to fulfill my dream of obtaining a Master's degree in Data Science.