Documents/Essays/SPAR Applications.md, before:

# SPAR Applications
#📝Essay

## Briefly describe your career interests or study plans. How does SPAR contribute to them? *

### Rough Draft

I want to make a significant contribution to the field of Machine Learning. Namely, I want to develop reliable, trustworthy models that are also explainable. However, to reach these lofty goals, I need more experience conducting research in general, and in exploring difficult unsolved problems.

### Draft 2

After a couple of years of working as a Software Engineer, I decided to pursue a Master's degree with the primary goal of 

## Briefly describe your relevant skills or research experience. *

I conducted research during senior year of my Undergrad, within bioinformatics. After this, I interned as a research assistant for Carnegie Mellon University lab, where I gained more experience with reading and understanding research papers and running experiments. I've quite familiar with TensorFlow and Keras.

## How have you engaged with the field of AI safety so far? *

I took a Data Mining and Machine Learning Techniques course, and it was here that I was introduced to Robert Geiros' paper on CNNs failing on image styles. This got me really interested.

Commit message:

vault backup: 2025-08-18 19:54:05
Affected files:
Documents/Essays/SPAR Applications.md

Documents/Essays/SPAR Applications.md, after:

# SPAR Applications
#📝Essay

## Briefly describe your career interests or study plans. How does SPAR contribute to them? *

### Rough Draft

I want to make a significant contribution to the field of Machine Learning. Namely, I want to develop reliable, trustworthy models that are also explainable. However, to reach these lofty goals, I need more experience conducting research in general, and in exploring difficult unsolved problems.

### Draft 2

After a couple of years of working as a Software Engineer, I decided to pursue a Master's degree with the goal of determining if I prefer industry or academic research more. While I have had some research experience in the past, I have not previously been able to commit all of my efforts to the endeavor, so I am excited to dedicate my time to the exploration of AI Safety even further. To that end, a collaboration with some of the brilliant researchers from many of these SPAR projects would bring my that much closer to understanding AI Safety research, and solidifying my future research plans.

## Briefly describe your relevant skills or research experience. *

### Rough Draft

I conducted research during senior year of my Undergrad, within bioinformatics. After this, I interned as a research assistant for Carnegie Mellon University lab, where I gained more experience with reading and understanding research papers and running experiments. I've quite familiar with TensorFlow and Keras.

### Draft 2

With regards to Machine Learning research, I have historically been involved with bioinformatics projects, involving implementing and training TensorFlow models as well as analyzing research papers and preparing reports for my advisors. During my time as a Software Engineer, I gained extensive experience with designing, building, and deploying APIs to the cloud, namely AWS. Outside of work, I also read and reproduced a couple of research papers, gaining more experience with understanding model architecture and the decisions that go into these designs.

## How have you engaged with the field of AI safety so far? *

### Rough Draft

I took a Data Mining and Machine Learning Techniques course, and it was here that I was introduced to Robert Geiros' paper on CNNs failing on image styles. This got me really interested.

### Draft 2

I gained an interest for AI Safety after taking a Data Mining & Machine Learning course by Dr. Yifeng Gao at The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, where he introduced me to scenarios in which widely-used "state of the art" ML models contained potentially very unsafe properties, like in the case of Robert Geirhos' "ImageNet-trained CNNs are biased towards texture" paper. After this, I searched for other areas in which models could be untrustworthy or unreliable, which led me to reading a number of related research papers. It was this direction that informed the theme of my Statement of Purpose for my Master's applications, which then led me to the program here at the University of Maryland. With any luck, this opportunity will lead me to many more in the future.
