# Teamwork
#📝Essay 

## [[🏫 UT Austin#Short Answers]]
Sympathy is often an easily forgotten aspect of leading, regardless of its positive effects. It’s easy to imagine a leader bossing someone around as opposed to connecting with a worker on a personal narrative, and I think that image needs to change.
With my Dad working full-time and my Mom attending to customers in her hair salon, there are periods in which my siblings and I are the only ones at home. Maintaining a peaceful environment can be a real challenge sometimes, especially with 3 adolescents running around the place. While it doesn’t always seem fair, I am usually the one who must pull things together and maintain a semblance of order. Being my siblings, they don’t normally respond well to orders and yelling. Instead, to get them on my side, I may joke around with them or initiate a board game. We end up having a blast, and all without burning the house down.
While watching over my siblings while my parents are away isn’t the same as leading a major group of people, maintaining connections with the I people I work with is a universally beneficial approach.
I have applied this approach to my group projects in high school. There are many situations in which a member may have something come up that prevents them from working as planned. While an initial reaction might be anger or annoyance, I try to first understand where my partner may be coming from. Its certainly easy enough to imagine my own excuses for not accomplishing certain tasks, and I keep that in mind when I respond. It turns out that most people want to contribute to the group, and will, if shown that they are welcome and are valued members.

## [[💸 Generation Google]]
"And. . . . the time starts NOW!” the program coordinator announced. My teammate and I rapidly visited the competition website, scouring through the page for the first tasks to complete. “I can start on the Data Privacy questions” I told my partner. “They seem to be working fine. You can do the HMAC Features since they can be searched up.” “Yeah, I’ll start working on those. I’m trying out Access Control, but I’m having some trouble” my teammate remarked.
My partner and I had just begun the CAHSI South Texas Virtual Hackathon of 2021. We were communicating through online messaging and rushing to gain a foothold in the competition. We were just like the 20 other teams participating, except for one detail: two of our group members never showed up. In addition to our lack of manpower, we both also had trouble with installing John the Ripper: software necessary for password hashing and cracking. With only two members and less questions available, our situation looked bleak. However, while I was unhappy with the situation we found ourselves in, I wasn’t going to take a loss lying down. I sent and responded to rapid messages with my partner to divide up our work and give us the best fighting chance possible. We asked each other questions when we got stuck and solved each problem with our own resources. While we were unable to answer password related questions, we completed most of the others.
By the time the competition time ran out and the results were displayed, my partner and I were astonished: we achieved 7th place! I realized that in the grand scheme of things, achieving 7th out of 20 teams is not impressive by itself. However, through collaboration and extreme focus, my partner and I performed much better than we ever hoped, with reduced manpower.
While it was all in the heat of the moment, I realize now that I resisted panic in a desperate situation to maximize the productivity of my group. After expressing our concerns to our hackathon coordinator prior to the event, we were disheartened to hear that we would have to compete without the help of extra team members. It would have been easy to give up then, and it would have been easier to half-heartedly endure the competition. Instead, I wanted to prove that my partner and I did have what it takes, regardless of the situation we were placed in. Fueled by my circumstances, I pushed myself and my partner to work even harder than the other competitors to make up for our disadvantages. Pressure ended up motivating me to take an active role in leading my team to (relative) victory.

## [[🏫 Cornell#Short Answers]]
I see collaboration as a method to produce plans and carry them out in the most efficient way possible. Individually, we all have abilities that we use to accomplish tasks. By combining the skills of many toward one goal, collaboration can produce exceptional ideas and products that would have been impossible otherwise.
However, this process is easier said than done. Guidelines must be set to foster effective communication and collaboration in a team.
I may not always be at the center of group discussions giving orders and distributing tasks, but I play a pivotal role in keeping the group working. Without communication, collaboration is impossible. Regardless of the talents and merits each group member may hold, a group can accomplish little if those talents are not combined effectively. When I am assigned to a group to complete a designated goal, my first efforts go to establishing a means of communication. I also try to stay in touch with individual members if possible, answering any questions I can. Much can be accomplished if teams are allowed to put their brains together without disruption.